---
title: "The limitations of bandwagon fallacies"
description: "Bandwagon fallacies can only be applied in situations where there is a naturalistic presupposition."
date: "2024-05-31"
---

Bandwagon fallacies can only be applied in situations where there is a naturalistic presupposition, since nature can bring about random processes. That foundation leads to such a priori assumptions about nature and if that's the case, any popular view can be reasonably doubted due to the levels of uncertainty nature brings. Chance frustrates our efforts to come to an idea of truthfulness. This however, is not the case with theistic worldviews. When someone says "Even if there is a Creator, how do we know which one is the true god?" they are leaving an atheistic/naturalistic worldview and deciding to engage with another set of presuppositions and the same rules of logic may not necessarily apply. For example, if many religions have a different idea of who Jesus was, but still imply he is an important figure, then Jesus becomes a common denominator and a piece of evidence within the context of the discussion between those religions. If I then compare those religions and say it is more plausible that the Jesus of Christianity is the right Jesus because it has the most original teachings about him, and those teachings are more widespread compared to the teachings of all religions, whether they mention Jesus or not, then this is a testament to what the true God has decided to become the standard revelation. Any claim that this is an appeal to popular opinion is disregarded because the assumption is "there is a Creator who is in control". In this case, the opposition’s claim to the fallacy would also show the disingenuity of backtracking into a naturalistic presupposition.
